# ePortfolio - CS499 Computer Science Capstone
## Self Assessment
My name is Brandon Hollada and in creating this ePortfolio, I find myself reflecting on my journey. Two years ago, I could not have imagined the number of skills and knowledge that I would gain studying computer science at SNHU. It would be impossible to list and show each and every one of them, but I believe this portfolio will showcase my understanding of the concepts behind being a developer. The artifacts in this portfolio will show my well-rounded skills, ability to solve problems, collaborative focus, and the technical abilities to create a successful program. Throughout my education before the capstone of CS499, I gained experience in the programming languages of C++, python, and java. I was able to utilize these to create android applications that would be UI/UX focused. In this I learned to create layouts and wireframes that account for differences in hardware. I was able to create programs that would interact with binary search trees. These would take user input to either do a depth-first search or a breadth-first search. In another course I was tasked with creating a program from a fictional customer. The program interacted with a NoSQL database that stored contact information for the customer. In this I had to ensure that security was a focus and implement input validations. JUnit testing was applied to ensure that coverage was above a 90% threshold. Aside from the technical coding skills, I learned about applying the software development lifecycle(SDLC). I learned how to run OWASP to test for security vulnerabilities. I am able to apply agile principles to collaborate and continuously improve. 
	Through the CS499 capstone I have shown and improved my skills in software engineering, data structures and algorithms, and databases. For these skills I chose to improve on previous coursework in CS360 and CS340. The CS360 is an android application that showcases my ability to work with mobile devices. This kind of design requires a focus on scaling for different screen sizes. It also showcases a focus on security and the ability to include SMS permissions. It allowed me to display my understanding of a separation of concerns and how to apply design concepts. These were concepts I learned in other courses but could see how they could be applied in different areas. The other project was used for the database and algorithms sections because of the nature of the program. I was able to utilize bigO time complexities to find ways to improve how the program would query the database. I also show my understanding of the differences between NoSQL and SQL databases. I was able to successfully migrate the project from a NoSQL database to a SQL one. I was also able to migrate the program running on Jupyter to a Dash application. These make a well-rounded portfolio that covers a wide range of topics in computer science. They show my ability to combine non-technical and technical abilities to push a program further and to make improvements. 

 ## Code Review
[Code Review Video](https://youtu.be/2sgM6CZ2jz8)

The link is for a video code review I did on my chosen artifacts. In the code review, I explain the functions of the original project and the changes that I planned to implement to the projects. The review determines weaknesses and limitations and my thoughts on how to address them. All the limitations may have been improved, but this shows my understanding of the project’s shortcomings and possible changes. 

## Software Design and Engineering
[Narrative](https://github.com/HolladaB/CS499/blob/49a8b89713a3292fba86e5f44f4e1830bce05ea4/Narratives/CS499Milestone2-Hollada.pdf)

For this portion of the portfolio, I have supplied a narrative that explains why the project for CS360 was chosen. The artifact lists off lessons that were learned in its creation, problems that were solved, and potential flaws that still exist. It is used to explain how I showed my abilities in improving the design of a previous program. It explains how what enhancements showcase this. 

## Algorithms and Data Structure
[Narrative](https://github.com/HolladaB/CS499/blob/05de416267f26e0a67dedbfd189459144ee43894/Narratives/CS499Milestone3-Hollada.pdf)

For this portion of the portfolio, I have supplied a narrative that explains why the project for CS340 was chosen. The artifact lists off the lessons that were learned in its creation, problems that were solves, and potential flaws that still exist. It gives a description of the enhancements that show my skills in algorithms and provides my thought process. It gives my problem-solving methodology and potential shortcoming of the program. 

## Databases Enhancement
[Narrative](https://github.com/HolladaB/CS499/blob/49a8b89713a3292fba86e5f44f4e1830bce05ea4/Narratives/CS499Milestone2-Hollada.pdf)](https://github.com/HolladaB/CS499/blob/7dd893056736f258632f6e9aaed0d134dad27d1b/Narratives/CS499Milestone4-Hollada.pdf)

For this portion of the portfolio, I have supplied a narrative that explains why the project for CS340 was chosen. The artifact lists off lessons that were learned in its creation, problems that were solves, and potential flaws that still exist. It gives a description of the enhancements that show my skills in database and provides my thought process. It describes how the enhancements show my understanding of databases and reasons for the enhancements. Alongside that, it gives a detailed description of ways to improve the current version.  
